_pages/categories/python.md, before:

---
permalink: "/python/"
layout: single
toc: true
title: "Python"
sidebar: 
    nav: "links"
---

App Service on Linux supports `Python` as a runtime stack built-in image.

>**Python Update Policy** - App Service upgrades the underlying Python runtime of your application as part of the regular platform updates. As a result of this regular update process, your application will be automatically updated to the latest patch version of Python available for that platform. For more information about current supported Python versions check [Support Timeline](https://github.com/Azure/app-service-linux-docs/blob/master/Runtime_Support/python_support.md#support-timeline).

> Find additional Python articles on [Technet/TechCommunity - Apps on Azure Blog](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/apps-on-azure-blog/bg-p/AppsonAzureBlog/label-name/Python).


You can find a compilation of resources by categories:

# Linux 

## Availability and Post Deployment issues
- [Troubleshooting 'failed to find attribute' errors on Python Linux App Services](https://azureossd.github.io/2023/01/30/Troubleshooting-'failed-to-find-attribute'-errors-on-Python-Linux-App-Services/index.html)
- [Python on Linux App Service and ModuleNotFoundError](https://azureossd.github.io/2022/11/24/Python-on-Linux-App-Service-and-ModuleNotFound-Errors/index.html)
- [Python Deployment - Could not find output.tar.gz](https://azureossd.github.io/2023/03/28/Python-Depolyment-Could-Not-Find-output.tar.gz/index.html)

## Configuration
- [Configuring Gunicorn worker classes and other general settings](https://azureossd.github.io/2023/01/27/Configuring-Gunicorn-worker-classes-and-other-general-settings/index.html)
- [Gunicorn Update HTTP Headers on Azure App Service](https://azureossd.github.io/2022/08/03/Gunicorn-update-HTTP-headers-On-Azure-App-Service/index.html)
- [Enabling Code Profiler for Python on App Service Linux](https://azureossd.github.io/2022/05/09/Enabling-Code-Profiler-for-Python-on-App-Service-Linux/index.html)

## Deployment
- [Deploying Python Applications using Github Actions](https://azureossd.github.io/2022/12/29/Deploying-Python-Applications-using-GithubActions/index.html)
- **Frameworks**
  - [Django Deployment on App Service Linux](https://azureossd.github.io/2022/02/20/Django-Deployment-on-App-Service-Linux/index.html)
  - [Flask Deployment on App Service Linux](https://azureossd.github.io/2022/02/17/Flask-Deployment-on-App-Service-Linux/index.html)

Commit message:

Adding could not open shared object file blog, to python Categories

_pages/categories/python.md, after:

---
permalink: "/python/"
layout: single
toc: true
title: "Python"
sidebar: 
    nav: "links"
---

App Service on Linux supports `Python` as a runtime stack built-in image.

>**Python Update Policy** - App Service upgrades the underlying Python runtime of your application as part of the regular platform updates. As a result of this regular update process, your application will be automatically updated to the latest patch version of Python available for that platform. For more information about current supported Python versions check [Support Timeline](https://github.com/Azure/app-service-linux-docs/blob/master/Runtime_Support/python_support.md#support-timeline).

> Find additional Python articles on [Technet/TechCommunity - Apps on Azure Blog](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/apps-on-azure-blog/bg-p/AppsonAzureBlog/label-name/Python).


You can find a compilation of resources by categories:

# Linux 

## Availability and Post Deployment issues
- [Troubleshooting 'failed to find attribute' errors on Python Linux App Services](https://azureossd.github.io/2023/01/30/Troubleshooting-'failed-to-find-attribute'-errors-on-Python-Linux-App-Services/index.html)
- [Python on Linux App Service and ModuleNotFoundError](https://azureossd.github.io/2022/11/24/Python-on-Linux-App-Service-and-ModuleNotFound-Errors/index.html)
- [Python Deployment - Could not find output.tar.gz](https://azureossd.github.io/2023/03/28/Python-Depolyment-Could-Not-Find-output.tar.gz/index.html)
- [Python Startup - Could not open shared object file: no such file or directory](https://azureossd.github.io/2023/04/17/Python-Deployment-could-not-open-shared-object-file/index.html)


## Configuration
- [Configuring Gunicorn worker classes and other general settings](https://azureossd.github.io/2023/01/27/Configuring-Gunicorn-worker-classes-and-other-general-settings/index.html)
- [Gunicorn Update HTTP Headers on Azure App Service](https://azureossd.github.io/2022/08/03/Gunicorn-update-HTTP-headers-On-Azure-App-Service/index.html)
- [Enabling Code Profiler for Python on App Service Linux](https://azureossd.github.io/2022/05/09/Enabling-Code-Profiler-for-Python-on-App-Service-Linux/index.html)

## Deployment
- [Deploying Python Applications using Github Actions](https://azureossd.github.io/2022/12/29/Deploying-Python-Applications-using-GithubActions/index.html)
- **Frameworks**
  - [Django Deployment on App Service Linux](https://azureossd.github.io/2022/02/20/Django-Deployment-on-App-Service-Linux/index.html)
  - [Flask Deployment on App Service Linux](https://azureossd.github.io/2022/02/17/Flask-Deployment-on-App-Service-Linux/index.html)
